Edit distance can also be weighted.
Why would we add weights to
the computation of edit distance?
Think about particular complications.
In spell correction it's obvious that
some letters are more likely to be
mistyped than others.
While in Biology, because of
the constraints of the subject matter
some kinds of deletions or
insertions are more likely than others.
So, for example, in spelling, here's
a confusion matrix for spelling errors.
So, if you'll look at this confusion
matrix you can see that E is a very likely
to be confused with A or O and
E so vowels tend to be confused.
But, it's very unlikely to confuse A and
B.
So A's are confused with E's and
I's and O's and U's and so on.
So the kind of spelling errors people
make have system masticity to them.
So, not just confusing vowels with vowels,
but
also the fact of the keyboard means
that you're likely to make errors
either using the homologous finger on
the other hand or using nearby keystrokes.
So the constraints of the domain, in this
case we're talking about spelling or maybe
we're talking about biology, are going to
make some edits more likely than others.
So we're going to represent this by
modifying the algorithm slightly
to add weight.
So, in the [INAUDIBLE] distance we have
the cost of one for insertion, one for
deletion, and two for substitution.
In weighted min edit distance
we simply add a simple
cost that we look up each time.
So initialization instead
of just adding one for
each deletion, we have the actual
cost of each deletion and
we add up the deletions of each
of the symbols that we delete.
And instead of having just one for
insertion we have cost for
each insertion and we add them all up.
And similarly in the recurrence relation,
we're going to add a special deletion,
insertion and substitution cost.
How much is to delete to have
delete that particular character,
insert that particular character.
And then we'll end on with
the same termination condition.
So we'll just add separate little
look up tables that will tell us what
the deletion, insertion and
substitution cost are for each symbol.
By the way, where did the name,
dynamic programming, come from?
Here's some quotes from
Richard Bellman's autobiography.
Bellman was the one who invented
dynamic programming, and amusingly,
he tells us that he came up with
the name for dynamic programming
really as a public relations move to
make an algorithm sound exciting.
So, this is maybe one of the first
algorithms that was named
in a branding way to make
an algorithm sound exciting.
So, there is our algorithm for
weighted minimum at a distance.